% Variable Layer Height

  - min / max layer height settings per extruder

- Left click: quadratic manipulator
- right click: linear manipulator
- for high precision settings: old layer height table is still valid and overrides


Slic3r gives the ability to adjust the layer height along the Z axis.
That is, parts of the model could be printed
with a coarse layer height, for example vertical sections, and other
parts could be printed with a finer layer height, for example sloping
gradients where layering appears more pronounced.

The layer thickness distribution can be influenced by:

- automatic pre-computing of good thicknesses with [Adaptive Slicing](#adaptive-slicing)
- interactive refinement in the [Adaptive Layers](#interactive-layer-refinement) settings tab
- setting a fixed layer height for a particular range in the [Layers](#static-layer-height-table) setting tab

 ![Example model highlighting use case for variable layer
heights.](images/variable_layer_height/example_model.png)



 ![Static coarse layer height (**left**) and adaptive heights
 generated by Slic3r (**right**).](images/variable_layer_height/model_coarse_adaptive_layers.png)


Adaptive Slicing {#adaptive-slicing}
----------------

Maintaining a good balance between printing time and quality is a fundamental
trade-off problem for 3D printing.

If the `Use adaptive slicing` option is enabled, Slic3r automatically
computes the individual thickness of each layer based on the angle of the surface.
Technical details are provided in a paper [^1].

The `Adaptive quality` option adjusts the overall quality between 0% - thickest
printable layers over the entire object to 100% - thinnest possible layers.
Upper and lower limits for the layer thickness are set per extruder in the
`Printer Settings` tab.
The `Z full steps/mm` parameter is allways respected by the adaptive slicing
process, also the `Combine infill` logic is not affected.
Example: if `Combine infill` is set to 3, Slic3r will combine up to 3 infill
layers, even if those layers are of different thickness. The number of combined
layers will vary along the Z axis, depending on the local thickness of layers.



 ![Activate adaptive slicing and set desired quality in the Print settings 
 dialog.](images/variable_layer_height/settings_dialog.png)

Interactive Layer Refinement {#interactive-layer-refinement}
----------------

A tool to interactively refine the layer heights of an object is available by
double clicking an object in the 3D tab-or taking the `Layer heights...`
short-cut in the Plater. This opens Adaptive Layers tab in the Settings
dialogue, where the layer thickness curve can be modified for each individual
model on the plater.

 ![Variable layer height
 control curve.](images/variable_layer_height/model_adaptive_control.png)


Static Layer Height Table {#static-layer-height-table}
----------------


The second tab (fig. )
presents a table where each row defines a layer height for a particular
range along the Z axis, given in millimeters. In this example the walls
of the model are printed at 0.4mm, the steeper parts of the roof are
printed at 0.2mm, and the less steep at 0.15mm. Note that each range
divides exactly by the given layer height so there are no "gaps" between
sections.

 ![Variable layer height options -
Layers.](images/variable_layer_height/variable_layer_height_options_tab_2.png "fig:")


The resulting G-Code (fig.
) shows a higher
definition which should result in a higher quality print.

 ![Example with variable layer
height.](images/variable_layer_height/example_gcode_variable_layer_heights.png "fig:")


Fig.  shows the example model printed. The print on
the left has 0.4mm layer height throughout, whereas the print on the
right has the variable layer height.

 ![Example print with variable layer
height.](images/variable_layer_height/example_print.jpg "fig:")


An additional feature of the variable layers height option is that by
entering a zero for a range that part of the model will not be printed.
Fig.  shows the G-Code where layers
between 0 and 4mm are skipped. This is a useful way of dividing a tall
model into multiple, shorter sections which can be printed individually
and assembled afterwards.

 ![Example with skipped
layers.](images/variable_layer_height/example_gcode_skipped_layers.png "fig:")

[^1]: [Adaptive Slicing for the FDM Process Revisited, 13th IEEE Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE-2017)](https://tams.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/publications/2017/Adaptive Slicing for the FDM Process Revisited.pdf)