% SVG Output

Slic3r can produce output for other types of 3D printers that require
each layer to be represented as image, for example DLP resin or
powder-bed printers. These expect an image usually consisting of a white
silhouette on a black background. (See the figure below.)
Almost all image formats can be used (bmp, png, etc.), however, because
the image may have to be scaled, it is usually desirable to use a vector
format, rather than a bitmap format. For this reason it is common to use
Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) format.

 ![Example SVG
slice.](images/svg_output/example_svg_slice.png "fig:")


Slic3r provides the ability to produce SVG output suitable for such
printers. Instead of using the `Plater`, the process begins by selecting
the `Slice to SVG...` option from the `File` menu. This prompts for the
source file (STL, OBJ or AMF), and when selected will prompt for where
the output SVG file should be saved. Slic3r will then go and produce the
SVG file.

Attempting to view the SVG file in a browser will result in only the
first layer being shown, and only the negative islands within the model
(as the browser background is usually white).

![SVG in the
browser.](images/svg_output/svg_direct_browser.png "fig:")

For this reason a small web application was written to allow each slice
to be displayed, and for it to be shown on a black background[^1].
Navigate to the application and drag and drop the SVG file onto the
screen to have it load and display.

 ![Slic3r SVG
Viewer.](images/svg_output/svg_slic3rsvg_viewer.png "fig:")

Other open-source tools, such as [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) will also
allow viewing of SVG files.

SVG Settings
------------

The majority of options in Slic3r are not required when generating SVG,
however the `Layer height` setting will dictate the number of layers.
Note that Slic3r restricts the layer height to be smaller than the
nozzle diameter, so this may also have to increased if higher layers are
desired.

Printing with SVG
-----------------

Whilst SVG output can be used in a range of printers, the following
example shows how the file can be used with a DLP resin printer. Using a
modified version of Klimentâ€™s Printrun[^2] the SVG file can be loaded
directly and sent to a DLP projector. The Z axis is controlled via
G-Code commands sent through the printcore component, which means that
standard RepRap electronics, such as RAMPS, can be used.

 ![Printing SVG with
Projectlayer.](images/svg_output/projectlayer.png "fig:")


[^1]: <http://garyhodgson.github.io/slic3rsvgviewer>

[^2]: <http://garyhodgson.com/reprap/projectlayer>
